video or gif?
mf, fff, etc.
b/w, closeup, etc.
female characteristics (hair, petite, busty, etc.)
position (some positions have names, but for the rest, use descriptions like sitting, lying, all fours, etc, to describe each participant)
act and act characteristics (standing, leaning back, hand somewhere, sitting up, etc.)

POSITIONS

	69
	counterblow (Deprecated. Girl lying on counter head back to give upsidedown head. Use "supine, lying, blowjob (or deepthroat)", instead.)
	cowgirl
	doggy
	flat dog
	missionary 
	piledriver (woman lying with legs over head, man fucking downward)
	reverse cowgirl
	reverse dog (man on back)
	scissors (can be tribbing or sex)
	seven (woman on side, legs spread. Man between legs.)
	side dog
	up missionary (Man is up. Woman on her back.)

	kneeling blowjob (deprecated. Search for and replace with constituent keywords.)
	kneeling cunni (deprecated. Search for and replace with constituent keywords.)

ACTS

	anal
	ass play
	blowjob (use deepthroat for deepthroat)
	body lick (can be kissing too)
	bondage
	boob massage
	boob suck
	bouncing boobs
	cock rub (as on face, boobs, vagina, etc)
	cock slap (as on face or vagina)
	crawling
	cumshot (use facial for facial)
	cunni
	deepthroat
	double penetration
	facial
	female masturbation
	female non-penetration (cock to pussy contact, woman moving)
	fisting
	finger in mouth
	fingering (also when man rubs clit, etc)
	fish hook
	hair pull
	handjob
	kissing (on the mouth)
	kneeling
	male masturbation
	male non-penetration (cock to pussy contact, man moving)
	massage
	multi-blow
	pee
	rimming
	sandwich
	sleeping
	titty fuck
	tribbing
	spanking
	teabag
	undressing
	vag2anal
	Voyeur

ACT CHARACTERISTICS

	all fours
	balls (woman playing with the balls, balls hanging low, swinging, etc)
	bruises
	choking (with hands)
	closed legs (when not usual for the position)
	dildo
	dom/sub
	face-sitting (anytime ass in face, not just sitting)
	funny
	gape
	hand on boobs
	hand on cock
	hand on head
	hand on pussy
	hard thrust
	insertion (insertion of cock (usually into ass) emphasized)
	interesting (misc interesting thing going on. E.g. pussy opening or closing, odd pulsing)
	leaning back (variation that can be applied to different positions. e.g. cowgirl and reverse cowgirl.)
	lips (labia prominent or unusual)
	lying
	nipple (nipple featured, often with "pinch")
	oil
	pinch (often nipple)
	plow (as in the yoga position)
	romantic
	prone (lying on belly, usually applied to lying blowjob)
	pullout (cock comes out of pussy or ass, intentionally or not)
	saliva
	side (can apply to many positions as variation, like woman on her side being fucked but not side dog which is both on their sides, i.e. spooning)
	sitting
	sitting up (as variation of a position where sitting is not the usual)
	smush boobs
	smush face
	spread legs (when exceptionally wide or not usual for the position. Also used for legs pulled up and back in missionary.)
	standing (variation that can be applied to different positions. e.g. 69 and missionary.)
	squirt
	strapon
	supine (lying on back, usually applied to lying blowjob)
	suspended (if woman is suspended off the ground OR man is holding himself off he ground)
	teasing (woman teases the man)
	tongue (tongue featured prominently or unusually long)
	vibe (vibrating toy that's not a dildo, e.g. sybian or massager)
	woman move (in a position where usually the man moves)

FEMALE CHARACTERISTICS

	RACE
		asian
		african

	HAIR
		blonde
		brunette
		redhead

	OTHER
		bush
		busty
		hot (unusually beautiful or glamorous. Mostly for pose pics.)
		feel good (facial expression)
		petite
		piercings
		tattoo

MALE CHARACTERISTIC

	big cock

SCENE
	ballet
	bath
	fantasy
	shower
	slow motion
	underwater

IMAGE CHARACTERISTICS

	b/w
	closeup
	gif (animated)
	pose
	selfie
	series
	video

RATING

	nudity (deprecated. Assumed.)
	pg
	x (deprecated. Assumed.)

BODY PARTS (For pose pics. To determine if the body part is featured predominantly.)

	ass
	boobs

PARTICIPANTS

f
ff
mf
mff


-------------------------------------------------

digikam: Read tags for exif data, including category tree. Shows all tags, so have to scroll down to see which ones already applied. Can do keyboard-only tagging by staying in the tag textbox, typing, and hitting TAB to select the autocompleted tag. Then pgdn to go to next image. Animated gifs do not animate.

kphotoalbum: took forever to parse folder, kept crashing, has neat keyboard-only tagging, but I never got to it. Can also apply single-letter "tokens". Stores tags in own xml, not file's metadata. Did not read tags I already did and stored in exif. Animated gifs don't animate.

gtkrawgallery: could not install due to liblcms1 not being able to be installed. Could not find info on animated gif support, nor method of tagging, but it claims very fast tagging.

shotwell: no animated gif support. Did not look further.

picty: no animated gif support. Did not look further.

fotoxx: probably no animated gif support. Did not look further.

f-spot:

xnview: animated gif support, but seems no quick tagging. I've figured out that gif doesn't have exif, xmp, and iptc support, so for them, I can't put the tags in the file anyway. Might be good to look at the tags to verify. Gimp also.

gthumb: animated gif support. Okay tagging. Tags may or may not go into file's metadata, but I think they do, just not with gif. It didn't used to, but I think they fixed it: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gthumb/+bug/213367

------------------------------

I've decided to use gthumb. Tags will go into metadata for jpg, but go into an xml file for gif and mp4.

To facilitate tagging, run autokey. When autokey is active, the following things occur:

* ctrl-t: When viewing an image, it opens the tag window and moves it off the image. (Why did the gthumb developers put it right over it???)

Then, once in the tag window, the following key substitutions occur:

* Tab is down: Use this to select a tag from the list

* ctrl-j: selects all tags you typed, copies to clipboard, and deselects. Use this for a series of pictures with common tags.

* ctrl-enter: Saves and quits the tag window, then moves to the next image.

-----------------------------

The above works well, but maybe dmenu will work even better? I could use dmenu combined with autokey to make a kphotoalbum-like tagging system (i.e. the best keyboard-only tagging system possible). 

Make ctrl-t open (and move) the tag window as before, but now it runs dmenu next. You then use dmenu to select the tags using categories. Type the first few letters to narrow it down, and ideally, if the category names are different enough, you'll only have to type 1 or 2 letters. Hit enter.

Dmenu runs again, this time with the chosen category's tags. Again, hopefully the tags are different enough that only a few keystrokes narrows it down to the one you want, but you could also use the arrow keys and ctrl keys to move over the list.

I thought about keeping track of frequency of use, but nah. Too much work when I probably won't use the arrow keys anyway. In fact, I wonder if even categories are necessary? Maybe just for some things.

Another idea is to present a series of dmenus one after the other. This will help people not forget certain tags. For example, I often forget "series." It could ask: "none gif video", and you'd just hit enter for none or g or v, enter. Easy; no brain-work necessary.

Then it'd give the "f mf fff..." menu, the "b/w series" menu, and then the rest.

Or it could guide you in an even more complex way with the various positions, acts, etc. This will help prevent mistakes and maintain consistency.

I'm thinking I should remap space to ctrl-enter (continue adding more) and tab to the right arrow, if I decide to present a big list of keywords.

I could also have a "done" option at the beginning. That might be better because the input isn't cleared after a ctrl-enter.

Ok, I just organized all currently existing tags. I think the best system is:

1. Media type: none, gif, or video
2. Image characteristics: b/w, closeup, series
3. Participants: f, mf, ff, mff, etc.
4. Participant characteristics: race, hair, etc.
5. NOT ANYMORE All rest mixed together: scene, sexual position, variations, primary act, secondary act, body position, and act characteristics. BUT, mixed in are options to go to individual menus for these, and in each individual menu are options for back (or all?) and all the other individual menus. I suppose there could be also options to go back to all earlier menus too.

On the other hand, not mixing so much together might cut down on necessary keystrokes to narrow things down. Ah, I could mix common stuff in a top-level menu, along with individual menus to less common stuff, categorized.

Yeah, so here's the top-level menu: 69, cowgirl, doggy, missionary, reverse, anal, sitting up, smush boobs, smush face (maybe change to face smush), spread legs, supine, prone, kneeling, sitting, all fours, plow, side, standing, blowjob, deepthroat, cunni, handjob, tribbing, fucking, pose, bondage, bouncing boobs, cumshot, facial, female masturbation, fingering, hair pull, kissing, hand on boob (maybe change to boob touch), hand on head, ass, tongue, romantic, woman move, dom/sub, hard thrust, teasing.

69, al an, as, bl, bon, boo, bou, co, cum, cun, de, dog, dom, fa, fe, fi, fu, hai, handj, hand o, har, ki, kn, m, pl, po, pr, re, ro, sid, sitting, sitting u, smush b, smush f, sp, st, su, te, to, tr, w

Ok, so maybe remove handjob, sitting up, and smush boob. Then they're all pretty short!

Oh, wait. I just learned dmenu will search inside entries too, so smush boobs could just be "h b". Ok, so with this discovery, no changes are necessary, and keyword clarity is priority over first letters uniqueness.

NOT ANYMORE Mixed in with these are: SP (Sexual Positions), VA (Variations), BP (Body Positions), PA (Primary Act), SA (Secondary Acts), AC (Act Characteristics), IC (Image Characteristics), SC (Scene), MC (Model Characteristics), FM (f, mf, ff, etc)

Latest/greatest:

1. Media type: gif or video
2. Image characteristics: b/w, closeup, series
3. Participants: f, mf, ff, mff, etc.
4. Participant characteristics: race, hair, etc.
5. Female body position.
6. Most common of the rest of the keywords.

In all of these menus, & goes back and * goes forward. 

Going forward * in the Common menu means done. $ in any menu is done.

Once you select from Participants, you can't get to that menu anymore, because there's always only one of those.

Then in step 6, you can go to the individual submenus by hitting a capital letter (followed by enter, dammit):

P = Participant Characteristics (not Participants because that's needed only once.)
B = Body position
C = sCene
S = Sexual position
V = Variation
7 = p7imary act
8 = 8econdary act
A = Act characteristics

After selecting something in step 6, it returns to step 6. The others go to the next menu. Individual submenus go back to the Common menu. 

Common Menu: 69, cowgirl, doggy, missionary, reverse, anal, sitting up, smush boobs, smush face (maybe change to face smush), spread legs, supine, prone, kneeling, sitting, all fours, plow, side, standing, blowjob, deepthroat, cunni, handjob, tribbing, fucking, pose, bondage, bouncing boobs, cumshot, facial, female masturbation, fingering, hair pull, kissing, hand on boob (maybe change to boob touch), hand on head, ass, tongue, romantic, woman move, dom/sub, hard thrust, teasing.

Gives error if select keyword that's not in system. (Maybe ask if it should be added, and if so, use dmenu to ask which menu to append to. No, just do below.)

To add a new keyword, add a * at the end.
